Early cryptology was mainly concerned with converting secret messages into characters that cannot be read to protect the content of the message when it is tranferred from one location to another. Cryptology played a huge role in the shaping and development of many societies and cultures. Ancient egyptians used heiroglyphs to hide the meaning of the messages from people who cannot figure out the meaning. Greek's used to wrap a tape around a stick and write on it. When the tape is later unwound, the writings were not clear or could not be interpretted. The person receiving the stick would be able to decipher the message as the person owned a stick with the same diameter. Roman's had their own method of cryptology which was the Caesar Shift Cipher. They used to shift letters by a number that was already agreed upon andit was usually three. The receivers would shif the letters backward by the same number to decipher the message. 

The development of cryptology led to the development of cryptoanalysis which the breaking of codes and ciphers.The development of frequency analysis cryptology changes the course of history. It played a huge role in World War I and II, as it led to the development of Zimmermann telegram which triggered the entry of US into World War I and being able to read the ciphers of Nazi Germany led to a shorter World War II and it is been estimated that WWII was shortened by 2 years

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_cryptography
http://www.inquiriesjournal.com/articles/1698/a-brief-history-of-cryptography
