The historian Gillian Cookson called the Atlantic cable "The wire that changed the world". Especially due to the role it played in breakingthrough the future development of submarine telegraphy. In 1866, a durable transatlantic submarine cable was successfully completed which led to a new era of global communication by offering transoceanic communication. Cables were then laid from Europe to India, Southeast Asia, Australia and other far regions. The ocean network kept expanding till it formed dense links with landline connections. And by 1900, 13 Atlantic cables were able to process 10,000 messages daily. Telegraphy is connected to globalization as suggested by the history of wiring the world with atlantic cables. The Atlantic cable prompted cultural, economic, and political changes. It was later concluded that the capabiliites of the Atlantic cable, the services it provided and the products it delivered resulted in radical social changes. The cable changed people's perception of time, distance between countries, and the relationship between nations and continents. Telegraphy did not change people's lives as much as internet and telephone later did, however; it had a radical effect on military, commercial and political activity. Jorma Ahvenainen introduced the idea that "the global submarine cable network facilitated the very existence of world commerce and world politics".

MÜLLER, S. M. (2016). From Cabling the Atlantic to Wiring the World: A Review Essay on the 150th Anniversary of the Atlantic Telegraph Cable of 1866. _Technology and Culture_, _57_(3), 507–526. http://www.jstor.org/stable/44017442